So. My main creation, my oldest faction, finally complete after a year of hard work. (I forgot the sound file home, so I'll send tomorrow :)The Androgynous CommunityA society that belives that evolution can be "speeded" artificially. Their main goal is creation of a totally genderless society... where all people would be hermaphrodites. And... that's basically it. The txt file has some more information on the inspiration for the faction. All graphics are drawn by color pencils. Rip from that :)Awaiting your ansver,Sys------------------------>sounds great, wouldn't be Bowie inspired at all would it, just a wild guess...No, no, not at all. And the base names are definately not taken from names of his songs... :)It seems that I forgot the sound file home. I'll send it tomorrow.------------------------What's up with the Fictions part of you page? it only says"This is the page for more detailed descriptions and tales of the factions, and how they come to be, or what ever became of them. Feel free to submit any material you wish, you might want to also check out the various forums where you can start a story thread and have others embellish your story also... enjoy!"But there are no links to any fictions... I was quite interested in the Juridic fiction, among others, and I have a fiction for the Adrogynous Community (how surprising :P), so i was just wondering...-----------------------The bad news is, the Androgunous sound file is too big to be fitted into a discette, and thus I can't bring it here to send to you :(The good news is, following is the first chapter of the Androgynous fiction. Could we coordinate it so that the last chapter would come out when the set Androgyns are in is released?Anyways, enjoy your reading.Episode 1Dreidre Skye looked around in the last remaining greenhouse. Zakharov's techicians that had been enforcing the windows for test of the fusion drive had just left... the windows would have to be enforced, otherwise none of the planst would survive.Her commlink beeped, and she heard her captain calling over it. "Officer Skye, acknowledge immediately.""Yes Captain. I read you.""We have discovered insurgents on the ship. Crewmembers moving about without authorization...we don't know how many or exactly what they want. We don't believe they are in your area, but you need to be careful. Have one of Zakharov's crew post outside the Hydroponics module."Insurgents... how on earth was that possible? She quickly recollected herself."Zakharov's people are no longer here, Captain. They left a few moments ago under orders"Momental silence... Dreidre could allmost hear the Captain thinking."Did they say why?""No, Captain. They were pinning the synthglass panels on the far side of the Greenhouse when a commlink came in. All three of them packed their tools and departed quickly. And Captain...I could use people here. Whether we stop the ship or not, someone will need to eat, and my hybrids need tending. I can't rely on...that is to say, Zakharov's people are quite busy.""Understood. Send your crew requests to the command mod and we'll trigger their wakeup from here. Keep the number to a minimum. Also, activate the motion detectors in the hallway outside the Greenhouse. Be careful, Deirdre.""Understood." Garland had closed the commlink. Dreidre headed swiftly for the nearest console, and started looking up names of her staff. The list crolled by the screen, as she looked for familiar names, her best assistants... five would be enough. That kind of a group could easily manage the greenhouse as it was. She had quickly marked four names:Howden, TSteiner, SHakim, OSabino, ROne more... but who? She noticed a very simple name. Who? Then she remembered. It was him... or should it be said hir now? Though .... s/he... was what s/he was, s/he was allso one of her most talented workers. She added a name to her list:Id, KEpisode 1, Part 2Kalle Id woke in hir cryocell. The blue liquid that filled the cell had drained away. S/he felt disoriented, but if s/he remembered correctly, that's what it was supposed to feel like, waking from hibernation. S/he removed hir respirator and IV's, and opened the lid of the cell. Stepping out of the cell, s/he stood there for a while, in hir full height, some blue liquid dropping from hir naked body. S/he had been the only one that had been awaken. Something must have happened. S/he wondered what it was as s/he dried hir long, brown hair, and a dozen different scenarios crossed hir mind.S/he was dragging hir green uniform out of the closet as commlink sounded with a familiar feminine voice:"Lieutenant Id, please respond.""Yes, officer Skye", s/he ansvered with a raspy voice and cleared hir throat "I hear you.""You have been awakened because a serious situation has arisen onboard. Several, in fact. Please report to Hydroponics Module 1 immidiately. I fill inform you of our status as you arrive.""Acknowledged. I'm on my way." (Though s/he didn't even have hir uniform on yet).S/he quickly put her uniform on and started walking toward greenhouse 1. The uniform was even more loose than it had been before. S/he had never been muscular, but now s/he was very, very skinny. Well, there would be time for muscle rebuilding later.When s/he arrived at the greenhouse, Skye and four other biologists were allready waiting for hir."Didn't you say 'I'm on my way'?" Dreidre said, smiling."I forgot I'd have to get dressed", s/he ansvered, smiled and joined the others.The smile faded from Dreidre's face as she started to speak:"Our situation is not good. Apparently the ship had been hit be a meteor not long ago, and key personnel were awakened. One cryobay and two hydroponics mods have been destroyed. Soon after awaking we also found that there are insurgents on this ship, a group called 'the Spartan Federation'. We do not know what their cause is, but they are armed and move freely around the ship."She looked at the shocked faced of her workers."I'm sorry to have waken you at such grave hour. However, this garden needs tending, and you are the best that I've got."Silense."Should we be armed?", Omar asked."The Captain has not yet decided that. Currently we should only thend to the needs of the plants. Here's how we'll do it..."Personal log entry,Lieutenant j.g. Kalle IdI went to sleep forty years ago during a war. Now it seems that I have awaken into a battle... however, we are only days away from Chiron, as our destination is titeled. There is still hope.The others are taking me surprisingly well. I would have expected a stronger reaction from having to work with a hermaphrodite (god I hate that word!)... If this mission fails, at least I'll die being like I allways wanted to be.------------------------------------------------------------