Arcology Movement:  

A faction based on building large cities.  In backstory terms, the society will encourage values (such as efficiency, thrift, lack of aggression, etc), that can allow large amounts of people to live tightly packed together, for a more efficient and organized society.


Characteristics:

Cities exceed hab requirements by 3  (Faction lives in large, packed cities)

3 less drones per city  (Faction citizens less sensitive to overcrowding.)

-1 morale:  Faction citizens less combative (to avoid conflicts in densely packed cities)

-2 support (faction less focused on expansion.)

Planned economics causes no inefficiency  (society already highly organized and planned)


Faction leader profile

Name: Marta Satriyo
Position: Unity colony architect/building engineer
Country of Origin: Indonesia
Birth date: 11-09-2025

Born 2025 in Jakarta, Indonesia.  Parents owned several stores.  Received education in civil engineering, and worked on a range of projects from the complexly built Jakarta economic towers to a rebuilt sewage pipe system, including a number of smaller building projects.  Her Jakarta towers work gained the attention of U.N. unity planners, and she was chosen to be one of several colonists who would help design living spaces and other buildings once on a centauran planet.


Psych profile:  Builder

Subject has a largely stable personality, unlikely to be involved in ideological, ego, or personality conflicts.  Detail focus, concentration ability, and other such characteristics near average for members of her profession.  Should be a stable and productive, but otherwise unexceptional, member of the unity crew.


After the landing:

Satriyo’s personality and lack of strong ideology led her to join the Chrion colonists when the unity colonists were split.  As expected, Satriyo worked as a building designer for the new colonies, and over the early years on centaurus, helped design much of the buildings and infrastructure in Chiron colonist early cities.

The early years went well for the fast growing Chiron Colonist faction, with farms, mines, piping systems, and other infrastructure built rapidly, and several new cities founded within the first few years.  Their leader, Pedro Silva, was very experienced and skilled at such developments, and managed the growth of his faction well, ensuring all the new infrastructure was built quickly, effectively, and worked well once completed.  Political conflicts also did not get out of hand in the early years.

However, Silva was well known for tendency to ignore or put less focus on less technical matters, or long term damaging side effects, in his drive to build.  On earth, his projects had been known for their environmental damage and for problems caused to indigenous groups.  On centaurus, environmental and indigenous issues reared their head again, as the rapid colonist expansion and resulting pollution led to numerous mind worm attacks.  The Chiron colonists were the first faction to build large networks of sensor arrays to deal with these mind worms, but attacks were still quite common and damaging.

Another matter Silva had failed to consider was how to manage the growth of colonist cities.  The colonists’ focus on outward expansion left little resources for handling the increased population density and growth of the earlier, inner cities within the colonist faction.  After a few decades of such growth, flagpost colony, the colonist capital city, had crime rates close to the worst of those on some of earth’s larger cities, far higher crime rates than experienced in any other faction on centaurus.  Sewer systems, power systems, water systems, transport roads, and other such structures worked well individually, but were organized poorly and required large amounts of energy to run.  With resources and talent focused more on expansion at the edges of colonist territory, few people were available to handle the problems of the larger cities, one of them being Marta Satriyo.

While Satriyo still worked effectively at designing colonist infrastructure, the lack of proper planning for city growth became more and more frustrating.  As the factions came into contact with each other, Satriyo learned of many different psychological, social engineering, and other engineering methods for making buildings and infrastructure more efficient.  When not directly working on projects for colonist infrastructure, she developed her own ideas for building more effective cities.  Her ideas became known as “arcologies”, after similar concepts of high density, largely self sufficient buildings developed by thinkers back on earth.

Within a few years, Satriyo was given an opportunity to build her own colony, an honor given to many of the more productive colonist workers and leaders.  Most leaders followed a similar pattern of starting a small outpost, attracting small numbers of colonists to the new region, than building surrounding mines, farms, power collectors, and other such developments.  Other colonists would than be free to settle as desired, and the city would grow piece by piece as needed to house new settlers.

Satriyo’s approach was much different.  Instead of lining up only a small amount of followers, she attracted a far larger collection of settlers from Flagpost colony and other large cities.  Instead of rushing to build a small town, Satriyo built a supply of money and materials, to prepare for a large, well planned city.  While organizing supplies and plans for the city, Satriyo also had a number of psychological experiments and techniques to partially prepare the colonists for life in the new city.  When the time came to build the city itself, Satriyo ordered the first large building constructed.  Finding skilled builders was easy among the colonists, and as usual, the first large building for the new city was completed within a few months.  A few details of the plan, as usual, needed to be changed during construction, but overall the project went well.  The first group of several thousand colonists moved into the new building, and as plans and construction for further infrastructure was underway, data was taken on life in the first building.

Although some unexpected problems appeared at first (including mild claustrophobia, difficulties in operating the building’s hydroponic farms, and difficulties in scheduling the transportation system), the first arcology was successful, and construction of the next three began quickly.  Over a period of a year, three more arcologies were constructed, and in the year after that, another 10 were built.  Satriyo’s new colony was soon well established, with far more people than any other colonist faction city, apart from flagpost colony and two other early colonies.  Despite this, Satriyo’s colony used less energy and space than all but the newest colonies.

Despite the success of the new colony, Satriyo’s new creation was extremely controversial amongst the colonists.  The degree of planning required to prepare the cities put off some colonists, who in general were freedom loving and in general suspicious of attempts to control them from far away.   Many colonists, especially politically powerful frontier dwellers, were suspicious of large cities in general, and preferred that new colonies start small.  Most controversial were the psychological experiments and treatments.  The colonists as a whole valued determination, independence, and social or economic risk taking, and Satriyo’s docile followers appeared at first to go completely against these qualities.  Psychological treatments in general were highly suspect, reminding many of oppressive regimes on earth.

Perhaps most unluckily for Satriyo’s city building, the developers had been in contact with the human hive for some time, and Satriyo’s large scale planning and psychological treatments seemed too close to Yang’s attempt at communal utopia for many.  Satriyo was called a traitor, and a Yangist, by many colonist officials, and was placed under investigation for several months after completion of her first city.

Satriyo, and her supporters, tried for some time to defend themselves against harassment and investigation, but eventually, the political pressure became too problematic, and Satriyo asked that her city be made independent of the remaining colonist faction.  Some opponents agreed, seeing it as a way to remaove a potentially troublesome follower, while others say Satriyo’s followers as traitors who needed to be controlled.  In the end, however, Satriyo’s city was let go.

Now free to run her own faction as she wished, Satriyo began construction of some new cities.  She received requests from many Chiron colonists to join her faction, to get away from the poor condition be many large Chiron colonist cities.  Bolstered by new immigrants, the new faction began growing quickly.


Quotes:

Hab complex:

“The habitation complex is truly a marvel of social and technical engineering.  With skilled planning such a complex can support thousands in an area ¼ the size of traditional housing, yet the population reports no unhappiness of feelings of confinement compared to what existed before”   --Cities of Chiron

Pressure dome:

“I wish to dispel once and for all the silly reckless and dangerous suggestion that a sea base may be built without pressure dome protection.  To those who argue that a single building can be built to withstand the tides, currents, and forces underneath the sea, I ask you, would you rely on a string to keep a skyscraper high?”   --Safety and Ethics

Planetary networks:

“It is sensible and proper that, once basic computer networks are established in our colonies, that such networks be expanded and connected, to form a factionwide or planetwide web of information.  The resulting coordination and speed of information exchange shall far outstrip the minuscule costs of the initial infrastructure.”  --The early settlements.

Paradise Garden:

“In our world of superstrong solids, controlled fusion, nano manufacturing, and thinking, almost living computers, it is worthwhile sometimes to let one’s mind wander in the shade of a tree.”  --Small Pleasures.


Personal notes:

I couldn’t really think of a strong ideology for this faction to support and oppose.  Planned made the most sense as a supported engineering choice, but even than seems somewhat weak.

This faction was originally supposed to be a “sustainable development” type of faction getting free tree farms, planet bonuses, and larger cities.  I couldn’t think of many disadvantages to compensate for these bonuses, so instead came up with this faction the way it is now.
