Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri
FACTION FILE

Faction info:
Name - The Damned
Leader - Archdemon Ezrek
Version - v1.0
Date - 8/29/99
SMAC version - v4.0, untested but probably compatible with all others
---
Files included:
DAMNED  .TXT - The faction file; contains all info about faction for SMAC
README  .TXT - This information file; please do not distribute DAMNED10.ZIP without it
DAMNED  .PCX - Graphics information file 1 (Cities, leader pic, icons, etc.)
DAMNED2 .PCX - Graphics information file 2 (Lose screen for other factions)
DAMNED3 .PCX - Graphics information file 3 (Lose/win screen for your faction; monument icons)
DAMNED  .MP3 - Text blurb; belongs in the VOICES directory off of SMAC's main directory
---
Instructions for use:
Copy DAMNED.TXT and the three PCX files into SMAC's root directory.  Copy DAMNED.MP3 into SMAC's VOICES directory.

Once in the game, at the faction selection screen, choose the faction you wish to remove and click on "Load".  Type in "DAMNED" and hit enter.  You should now see "The Damned" in place of whatever faction you selected.

Note: An error in SMAC (not this faction alone) sometimes causes the Spartan's numbers to disappear while using a loaded faction file.  It's not dangerous, merely a pain in the a$$.
---
Faction background:
Although mankind considers itself the prime suspect in the downfall of Earth, darker powers can be blamed for much of the destruction.  Demons, ancient creatures of evil who have manipulated human history for millennia, were the secretive conductors of the planet's final symphony of annihilation.  As humans are the only force in the galaxy who truly pose a threat to the rule of the demons, execution of each and every man, woman, and child is imperative to insure their unquestioned rule of the quadrant.

However, as the last screams of the dying masses echoed down Hell's dank corridors, demonic satellite probes detected the launch of one last attempt at escape.  The sinister powers that be know that if mankind manages to take hold outside of their territory, it is only a matter of time before their incredible ability to multiply and conquer will lead to Hell's eventual demise.  As such, they have sent forth their greatest general, the vile Archdemon Ezrek of the Ninth Circle, to intercept the humans at Alpha Centauri.  Under his command they have placed a collection of imps, seccubi, familiars, and their ilk to form a mindless horde with which to combat the humans.

Failure will mean a fate far worth than death... victory will insure power beyond belief.
---
Faction description:
The demons' power lies in their military strength.  They gain the fanatical +25% bonus to attacks, have a +4 to morale, and are immune to probes.  What's more, as one would expect from minions long accustomed to Hell's harsh discipline, the first structure built at any base is a punishment sphere.  Another benefit of constituents used to hellish living conditions is that they require very little living space, allowing four more population units to be squished into hab complexes, hab domes, etcetera.

However, Hell's power-centered society is not without drawbacks.  Technological advancement is practically impossible, as the combined intellect of the entire horde is roughly that of a particularly dim-witted squirrel.  Conquest, as opposed to research, is their preferred method of advancement.  Another result of Ezrek's minions' lack of competence is their extreme susceptibility to psychic attacks, enough even to offset their morale-bestowed vigor.  Add that to their increased cost to hurry production, their virtual disregard for any and every living thing on the planet, and their poor efficiency due to internal squabbles, and you have a fair set of potentially damaging drawbacks.
---
Faction use tips:
If you're on a tiny map, you've got it made.  Produce as many military units as possible and crush everyone who gets in your way.  Larger maps, however, pose a problem.  You'll need, obviously, to keep up a good regimen of probe team infiltrations to maintain an acceptable level of tech.  What's more, with a disastrous Planet score of -4, combined with a particular susceptibility to psychic attacks, Planet itself stands to be your most dangerous enemy.  Probe often, attack early, and watch out for eco-damage if you expect to be in it for the long haul.  You have a distinct advantage in one area, though: NO DRONES!  Recreation commons and the like are completely unnecessary.  And incidentally, my hat is off to anyone who manages to Transcend with this faction...
---
Special thanks:
Heroes of Might and Magic III - I pulled most of the base icons and the background picture from screenshots I took from this game.  Though _heavily_ edited, the originals were used without permission - so don't sell this thing, kiddies, or you'll be in a world a hurtin'.

Spawn comic book - I pulled the faction icon from the cover, and Ezrek himself is merely a picture of Spawn.

The author of ACEdit 2.0 - Man, this utility made things easier.  If you want to do any editing, check out http://www.sidgames.com/acedit.  It's a little cryptic at times, but still extremely useful.
---
Author information:
Martin Woodard, reachable at mwoodard@calpoly.edu or mwoodard@southwall.com

I'd love to receive feedback on any aspect of this faction.  If I receive enough complaints/suggestions, I'll release further versions, incorporating the comments.

If you use any part of this faction in a modpack/faction/etc., please notify me first.  I spent roughly four days, and about seven hours, building this thing.  And that doesn't count playtesting.

If anyone's interested in designing their own faction, I've been considering drawing up a quick tips sheet to get you started ('cause boy, could I have used one!)  If you'd like to get a copy, just e-mail me.

Enjoy!