Empire:

This is fascist faction.  (not really much more to it).


Faction characteristics:

+2 police

+1 support

Free command center in each base

-1 efficiency

-1 economy

Robust efficiency (this is to prevent the police state preference from being too damaging)

Social preference: thought control

Social aversion:  democracy


Faction leader profile
Name: Antonio Garcia
Position:  Security guard
Country of Origin:  Philippines
Birth Date:  03-22-2028

Born 2028 in Manila.  At the age of 18, Garcia joined the Philippine military, and did not stand out in any special way.  After leaving the Philippine army, Garcia searched for a number of jobs, before joining a survivalist group in the Philippines, which he was still involved with as the unity project was being prepared.  Garcia’s activities within the survivalist movement are unclear, but it was influential enough to gain Garcia a role on the unity as a security guard.


Psych profile:  militarist

Garcia does not stand out in any particular way from other survivalist guards using official psych evaluations.  Like most survivalists, is intolerant of weakness, highly disciplined, and skilled with both weapons and physical abilities.  With sufficient control, should prove an effective security officer.


After Landing:

Garcia, like most survivalists, joined the Spartan faction on landing.  At first, he did not stand out in any way, but simply and rose through the ranks like many early colonists of the Spartan federation.

Soon, though, Garcia showed some differences in ideology between himself and the main Spartan federation.  While still focused on strength and discipline, Garcia seemed more interested in his own power, and in aggression against other factions, than was usual for the Spartan federation.  These views were not out of the ordinary for Spartans, and were not noticed in any way for some time.

However, as Garcia built his forces, he had been gaining political power, seeking followers and building a base of support.  Within a few decades of the landing on Centaurus, Garcia felt he was powerful enough to stage a coup, attempting to take power over the Spartan federation from Santiago.  The coup attempt soon resulted in a large Spartan civil war, with Garcia gaining support of many city guards and elite units to whom he promised more power and rewards, with most others sticking with Santiago.  Garcia was highly successful at first, taking control of many of the cities in quick battles, and capturing about a third of Spartan territory, however, the larger numbers of Santiago supporters soon began to win over Garcia’s supporters.  Garcia’s forces had set up effective defenses, and were taking time to defeat, but were slowly being captured again by the Spartan followers.

Most other factions simply ignored the conflict, either not wishing to waste their resources in a war, and/or hoping that the Spartan conflict would weaken the faction to where they would no longer be a threat to others.  However, Sheng-ji yang saw in the conflict an opportunity to expand his territory, and about a month after the Spartans began reconquering territory, hive forces attacked.  The Spartans were forced to turn some attention to the hive attacks, allowing Garcia to capture back some territory and fortify himself.  The Spartan forces eventually fought off the hive attack, but the time gave Garcia a chance to consolidate his power over his controlled territory, and the Spartans had little chance by that point of reconquering the lost territory.  Garcia now established his fascist style faction, 


Quotes:

Doctrine: Loyalty:

“No nation or ideology survives long without loyalty.  It is the foundation of armies, whether bought by promises of wealth power, or victory of some idea.   Without a core cadre of loyal followers, no cause can hope to survive, for they shall be defeated by a faction willing to sacrifice.”   --Foundations of the State

Naval Yard:
“History has taught that he who controls the sea often controls the land.  From the sea, one can conduct raids, control trade between the continents, or even invade another land whenever and wherever one wants to.”    --Strategy for Dominance

Bioenhancement center:

“Let the weak minded Lal protest as much as he wants to about our “moral repugnance” and “systematic oppression”.  His morality will mean little when our superior forces are marching through U.N. headquarters.”   --The Strong and The Weak

The Will to Power:

“Listen to those other factions, those organizations and splinter sects, those loose followers.  Watch the factions slide into disarray and paralysis. The ‘nietzschians’ believe they have discovered something new, they have merely discovered what we have known all along.”  --Rise of Empire 


Personal notes:

This faction was created both to have a +2 police faction, and to create a third “military stats” faction  (with believers and Spartans).  It also ended up filling another whole, liking thought control.  Inscluding the other factions I have created, all social engineering choices now have some faction that likes them.

It was originally supposed to be a peacekeeper breakaway faction (As all other factions including Chiron colonists had breakaways), but I wasn’t sure whether I wanted a militaristic or money based faction.  The money based made more backstory sense as a peacekeeper breakaway, so this faction became a second Spartan breakaway.

The picture is of Ferdinand Marcos, the Philippines dictator (unlike the other faction pictures, which are random google images for the various countries or regions of origin.)
