Marketeers:

A libertarian faction.  This faction, like Morgan, is focused on making money, but in slightly different ways that Morgan’s does, and with slightly different weaknesses.  In ideology terms, the difference between this faction and Morgan’s is that, while Morgan’s faction is effectively a single big business, the marketer faction is based on having a large number of businesses, while avoiding monopolies.  Effectively, it is an attempt to actually build a libertarian society.


Faction characteristics:

+1 efficiency:  (Talk to hardcore libertarian or free market conservative (U.S. politics) for details).  In general, though, think of this as the opposite effect of a planned economy.  (For gameplay reasons, it also allows the marketers to reach +4 efficiency without needing green economics).

-1 planet:  Less regulation makes environmental damage more likely.

-1 growth:  this is based on the modern world trend (at least from what I’ve heard), that as regions get more money they tend to be less focused on having kids.  For gameplay, this plus a lack of planned would make population growth a lot slower.

-1 probe:  open society makes spying easier.

Robust police and planet:  These additions are made to allow this faction to use free market more effectively.  I don’t want to remove all disadvantages for free market (since it has such large ones, and would make this faction too powerful), but still want to make it somewhat more advantageous.  Fortunately, only cybernetic has a negative police rating, so this solution somewhat works for this faction.

Free energy bank:  this seems pretty simple to understand.

Bonus comm. Frequency:  This faction will be focused on trade, and the bonus frequency seems to fit with that idea.

5% interest:  again, a somewhat different way to make money.

Prefers free market:  should be relatively obvious.

Dislikes planned:  Again, seems somewhat obvious.


Faction leader profile:
Halah Farid al-Rammah
Position:  unity construction logistics worker.
Country of Origin:  Iraq
Birth: 07-25-2020

Born in 2020 near Samarra.  Parents worked as an engineer and store clerk.  Family travelled to Jordan for a number of years when interreligious violence made the city unsafe between 2028-2034, and again in 2045 during the Iraqi conflict leading to the middle east tripolar war.  As fighting reached Jordan, Al-Rammah was one of many refugees fleeing to England, where she obtained an education in economics, where she developed strong pro-free market ideas.  After completion of the war, she moved back to Jordan to work on middle eastern redevelopment plans, where she developed a strong focus on market based solutions to rebuild the nation after the tripolar war’s destruction.  Overall development plans often failed due to political interference and corruption, though Al-Rammah’s contributions often had positive overall results when allowed to occur.  Al-Rammah’s work led to the starting of many new businesses for construction and small scale manufacturing, moreso than other people’s development efforts.  Al-Rammah never changed her overall theories regarding economic development, but did overall improve her success with development efforts in other areas of the world.  Al-Rammah became involved with the unity project when Jordanian contractors for unity structural components were faced with delays and cost overruns.  She was able to find replacement contractors to complete the project on schedule, and when U.N. funding ran out, found some alternative sources of funding until Nwabudike Morgan offered to fund the rest of the project.  In return for her services, she received a spot on the unity crew.


Psych profile: economist

Al-Rammah’s most obvious trait is her strong commitment to her economic ideas, often having difficulty reconciling the purity of her ideas with the routine realities of unexpected problems.  Still, she displays great creativity and skill in economic and business matters.  Though her use on a newly established colony is debatable, provided the colony survives and continues to grow, Al-Rammah should serve as an effective economic and political organizer.


After Landing

When the original 8 factions (Chiron colonists plus original 7) split on the unity, Al-Rammah joined Lal’s peacekeeper faction.  She was known to many of the talents in this faction, and as the faction developed, often competed with them on which economic and political choices should be made by peacekeeper leadership.  Rammah’s market based ideas won out more often than not, but she was often frustrated by Lal’s humanitarian concerns often leading him to interfere with economic matters rather than allowing markets to play themselves out.  Lal’s tendency to build large bureaucracies also went against al-Rammah’s economic viewpoints, leading to frustration on her part.

After some time, and despite more often than not having her policy suggestions enacted, the competition between Al-Rammah’s economic ideas and other concerns led her to wish to start her own faction, to finally put her economic ideas into full practice.  A large enough faction of peacekeepers agreed to allow Al-Rammah to move into unowned territory to put her theories into practice.  Enough peacekeepers followed her to strongly start off the faction’s existence.  While many peacekeepers were disappointed with this faction split, the two factions still had much in common, and started off with good trade and diplomatic relations.  Ironically, the most difficult faction for the new marketers to deal with was Morgan’s faction, which often caused problems through corruption and bribery.


Quotes:

Industrial Economics:

“The lack of established interests, combined with the expertise of thousands of hard working and inventive colonists, provides an opportunity to establish a nearly perfect competitive market in Chiron.  It is an opportunity almost unheard of in human history.”  --Economics of Colonization

Environmental Economics:

“We can, if we so choose, use brute force to bend Chiron to our whims.   But such a process almost inevitably meets defeat, made uneconomic by the enormous energy and material requirements.  Instead, a smart developer uses planet’s qualities and resources to their advantage, finding uses for its weather, its soil, and even its fungus.  Such clever use of resources inevitably outcompetes any inefficient, bloated, brute force teraforming project”     --Economics of resource extraction and environment

Industrial Automation:

“It is natural and inevitable that large scale adoption of robotic technology should have taken place on the Centauran world.  The limited labor supply, extreme working conditions on the new world, and demands of new extraction and farming technology, create conditions creating a strong demand for cheap, mass produced robotics.  Once the colonization started, it was only a matter of time before such technology would be developed and see widespread adoption”   --Capital and Labor of Chiron

Fusion Lab:

“If only our ancestors had controlled this cheap and plentiful power source.” –Economics of Energy


Personal notes:

This faction was mainly created to have a faction with a free energy bank in each base, and from there to create a somewhat different money faction.

Originally I was unsure whether I wanted the peacekeeper breakaway faction to be a money faction or militaristic faction, (since the other three “breakaway factions” were already thought of.).


