-III- The MCS Story -III-		by CybergodHuman screams could be heard. The Usurpers have captured the Baikonourbase. "Another glory and triumph of the Usurper Empire!" Marr hadcalled it. The last survivors were fleeing the base. Usurpers huntingbeasts were homming in on them. Usurper troop commander, Sanod, lookedat the base in dismay. "Will progenitor ever find peace in theuniverse?" Alpha Centauri A was setting low in the desert horizon. Thesky was filled with streaks of red. The whitish-grey University basewas blood-bathed in red light. "What about humans?" a thought came toSanod's head; "They claim to be the last survivors of their species.The primitive savages! They destroyed their own homeworld by notconsealing their greed. They couldn't colonise their stellar neighbours,could they? No, they just had to come here, where they are caught in acrossfire of our bloody progenitor conflict."		"Commander Sanod!" the res-link altered him out of his thoughts.	"Yes General O'Klai," he resonanced back.	"I want you to take care of the captured human slaves," theresonance felt strict and demanding.	"Responding, on my way."	"Take them to the interogation chambers. Take special care ofthose in white robes and strange metalic ensignas. They are the humanresearchers. We have great knowledge to gain from these. Clear?"	"Confirmation, general. Commander Sanod out."	Strange. He thought all caught humans were to be recycled orliquidated. He turned around and shook his tonsil to his assistantwho led him to their speeder. They drove down the dune towards agroup of captured humans, 'cared for' by several Usurper soldiers. Theirspeeder stopped and Sanod stepped out. He looked at them, they look backat him, their faces full of terror because of the alien progenitorresonance used on them. Some wore semi-transparent body suits and somejust a breathin mask. They weren't suited to this environment. Planethas been terraformed to feel as the progenitor homeworld. "So was TauCeti, and look what happened," Sanod thought. His father told himstories of it. They were filled with horrific scenes of a progenitorexperiment going wrong and turning against it's makers. Planet washalf-way there.	"Take them int their special hut," Sanod finaly said. Hewatched as the humans moved. "Their design is suited perfectly forinterstellar colonisation," he thought; "If they had enouth time, theycould have been a good ally to sail the stars with. Or the mostformidable enemy we have met. Now Marr wants these 'parasites', as hecalls them, eliminated."	As they moved, he could hear them producing sounds between eachother. "So this is the way they communicate? Speech? Too bad I don'tunderstand it, let alone not desire to." With sufficient training, theycould use weak resonance aswell. One particular female youth looked athim. She looked as young as his eldest son. She had her hair tied in onelong black braid reaching her lower back. Her bewildered dark eyesstared at him. The rest of her face was covered with a gas mask.	"Murderer!" she mumbled at him and tears started rolling downher cheeks. His assistant explained Sanod what it meant. He smirked andthought, "And what are you?"			*	*	*			[some years later]A progenitor university students group was visiting the drone-mounds.They have all been here before. It was always dark, stuffy and too muchoxygen for progenitor comfort. Strange new thing to them were herethough, was the new electric lighting. Most have never seen it beforesince they use progenitor resonance lightings and electicity was weakhuman technology. Those that knew about these, played with them, sinceelectrons could be easily manipulated by resonance fields.	"Stop playing with the lights!" the eldery professor alteredangrily.	They walked to the reactor rooms, from where most of the base'spower came from. This was also where most of he human slaves worked.They were captured from Usurper conquests and battles. There were enouthof them to retake this base, if they weren't controlled by the terrificpsych whip. Some of the students looked at them in discust. They lookedlike overgrown hatchlings, with nopleasing sliminess that made them carefor the new-born. They seemed to have a shrunken head, no tusks andstrange looking eyes. One student, however, did not look at the humanslaves in discust. Canq admired their strength and determination. Infact, one human could easily handle two non-military progenitors inhand-to-hand combat. Also Canq, son of now General Sanod of the FirstUsurper Brigade, even had humanoid-like features - his tusks wereshrunken and his head was smaller and more rounded than the average.This is not to say that he wasn't intelligent however. He was the topin his study class in N-Theories. He didn't do quite well in Usurperliterature and adaptive business studies but he was also good inathletics and sports. He, or rather his father did it for him, signed upfor the Sociology and Psychology course in the Baikonour college. Thisway, he could work alongside Sodan and work in human interogation.	Marr has changed his foreign policy towards humans now - hetalks about them as 'primitive' but also 'potential allies against theCaretakers' who had grew larger over the years. Now it's the game ofthe world diplomacy being played, with some human factions allying withHmee and some with Marr. This is also becoming crutial as humans areovertaking progenitor in certain field of technology - digital robotics.Progenitor are still trying to get to grips with it while humans are faroff and are steadily building up armies of these new hovertanks andlaunching digital satellites everywhere. Many progenitors now fear humanrevenge for their misjudgement and crimes against humanity earlier. Somedon't wish to be defeated by 'something level to a complex algea on theevolutionary scale' as Canq's father called them once. His mother feltmore compasionate towards them but didn't speak out much about anyprevious actions against them. She died saving a human infant from aCaretaker resonance gun. At least that was what he was told.	Canq looked at one of the female slaves crawling around thebio-machinery arms. She had a slender, muscular body and had a long darkbraid od hair. Canq felt strange. He felt drawn to her, His eyes werenow concentrated on her body as it moved, fixing the biological drivethat powered Baikonour. Suddenly she turned and devilishly altered usingweak resonance:	"What's a matter boy? Never seem a girl move her chlo before?"	His study class burst into progenitor laughter and Canq feltdeeply embarassed. He was also suprised by a human being able to 'speak'in their way.	"Most humans here have learnt to understand the progenitorresonance 'speech'. There are certain induviduals who can evenmanipulate resonance fields sufficiently to communicate. This one pickedthe right moment it seems," the professor commented and smirked at Canq.Canq knew enouth of human social interactions, which were included inthe course, to reply in 'human' back:	"Sorry," he said with a crackling voice, not used to producesound waves but rather to affect the flow of local resonance. The femalelooked up at him with a wry smile and then felt the psych whip. After aquiet cry of agony, she finished off:	"Don't be..." with a softer voice and turned away.